ENDER'S GAME
by Orson Scott Card
Chapter 1 -- Third
"I've watched through his eyes, I've listened through his ears, and tell you he's the one.
Or at least as close as we're going to get."
"That's what you said about the brother."
"The brother tested out impossible. For other reasons. Nothing to do with his ability."
"Same with the sister. And there are doubts about him. He's too malleable. Too willing
to submerge himself in someone else's will."
"Not if the other person is his enemy."
"So what do we do? Surround him with enemies all the time?"
"If we have to."
"I thought you said you liked this kid."
"If the buggers get him, they'll make me look like his favorite uncle."
"All right. We're saving the world, after all. Take him."
***
The monitor lady smiled very nicely and tousled his hair and said, "Andrew, I suppose
by now you're just absolutely sick of having that horrid monitor. Well, I have good news
for you. That monitor is going to come out today. We're going to just take it right out, and
it won't hurt a bit."
Ender nodded. It was a lie, of course, that it wouldn't hurt a bit. But since adults always
said it when it was going to hurt, he could count on that statement as an accurate
prediction of the future. Sometimes lies were more dependable than the truth.
"So if you'll just come over here, Andrew, just sit right up here on the examining table.
The doctor will be in to see you in a moment."
The monitor gone. Ender tried to imagine the little device missing from the back of his
neck. I'll roll over on my back in bed and it won't be pressing there. I won't feel it tingling
and taking up the heat when I shower.
And Peter won't hate me anymore. I'll come home and show him that the monitor's
gone, and he'll see that I didn't make it, either. That I'll just be a normal kid now, like
him. That won't be so bad then. He'll forgive me that I had my monitor a whole year
longer than he had his. We'll be-- not friends, probably. No, Peter was too dangerous.
Peter got so angry. Brothers, though. Not enemies, not friends, but brothers-- able to live
in the same house. He won't hate me, he'll just leave me alone. And when he wants to
play buggers and astronauts, maybe I won't have to play, maybe I can just go read a book.
But Ender knew, even as he thought it, that Peter wouldn't leave him alone. There was
something in Peter's eyes, when he was in his mad mood, and whenever Ender saw that
look, that glint, he knew that the one thing Peter would not do was leave him alone. I'm
practicing piano, Ender. Come turn the pages for me. Oh, is the monitor boy too busy to
help his brother? Is he too smart? Got to go kill some buggers, astronaut? No, no, I don't
want your help. I can do it on my own, you little bastard, you little Third.
"This won't take long, Andrew," said the doctor.
Ender nodded.
"It's designed to be removed. Without infection, without damage. But there'll be some
tickling, and some people say they have a feeling of something missing. You'll keep
looking around for something. Something you were looking for, but you can't find it, and
you can't remember what it was. So I'll tell you. It's the monitor you're looking for, and it
isn't there. In a few days that feeling will pass."
The doctor was twisting something at the back of Ender's head. Suddenly a pain stabbed
through him like a needle from his neck to his groin. Ender felt his back spasm, and his
body arched violently backward; hi head struck the bed. He could feel his legs thrashing,
and his hands were clenching each other, wringing each other so tightly that they ached.
"Deedee!" shouted the doctor. "I need you!" The nurse ran in, gasped. "Got to relax
these muscles. Get it to me, now! What are you waiting for!"
Something changed hands; Ender could not see. He lurched to one side and fell off the
examining table. "Catch him!" cried the nurse.
"Just hold him steady."
"You hold him, doctor, he's too strong for me."
"Not the whole thing! You'll stop his heart."
Ender felt a needle enter his back just above the neck of his shirt. It burned, but
wherever in him the fire spread, his muscles gradually unclenched. Now he could cry for
the fear and pain of it.
"Are you all right, Andrew?" the nurse asked.
Andrew could not remember how to speak. They lifted him onto the table. They
checked his pulse, did other things; he did not understand it all.
The doctor was trembling; his voice shook as he spoke. "They leave these things in the
kids for three years, what do they expect? We could have switched him off, do you
realize that? We could have unplugged his brain for all time."
"When does the drug wear off'?" asked the nurse.
"Keep him here for at least an hour. Watch him. If he doesn't start talking in fifteen
minutes, call me. Could have unplugged him forever. I don't have the brains of a bugger."
***
He got back to Miss Pumphrey's class only fifteen minutes before the closing bell. He
was still a little unsteady on his feet.
"Are you all right, Andrew?" asked Miss Pumphrey.
He nodded.
"Were you ill?"
He shook his head.
"You don't look well."
"I'm OK."
"You'd better sit down, Andrew."
He started toward his seat, but stopped. Now what was I looking for? I can't think what I
was looking for.
"Your seat is over there," said Miss Pumphrey.
He sat down, but it was something else he needed, something he had lost. I'll find it
later.
"Your monitor," whispered the girl behind him.
Andrew shrugged.
"His monitor," she whispered to the others.
Andrew reached up and felt his neck. There was a bandaid. It was gone. He was just like
everybody else now.
"Washed out, Andy?" asked a boy who sat across the aisle and behind him. Couldn't
think of his name. Peter. No, that was someone else.
"Quiet, Mr. Stilson," said Miss Pumphrey. Stilson smirked.
Miss Pumphrey talked about multiplication. Ender doodled on his desk, drawing
contour maps of mountainous islands and then telling his desk to display them in three
dimensions from every angle. The teacher would know, of course, that he wasn't paying
attention, but she wouldn't bother him. He always knew the answer, even when she
thought he wasn't paying attention.
In the corner of his desk a word appeared and began marching around the perimeter of
the desk. It was upside down and backward at first, but Ender knew what it said long
before it reached the bottom of the desk and turned right side up.
THIRD
Ender smiled. He was the one who had figured out how to send messages and make
them march-- even as his secret enemy called him names, the method of delivery praised
him. It was not his fault he was a Third. It was the government's idea, they were the ones
who authorized it-- how else could a Third like Ender have got into school? And now the
monitor was gone. The experiment entitled Andrew Wiggin hadn't worked out alter all. If
they could, he was sure they would like to rescind the waivers that had allowed him to be
born at all. Didn't work, so erase the experiment.
The bell rang. Everyone signed off their desks or hurriedly typed in reminders to
themselves. Some were dumping lessons or data into their computers at home. A few
gathered at the printers while something they wanted to show was printed out. Ender
spread his hands over the child-size keyboard near the edge of the desk and wondered
what it would feel like to have hands as large as a grown-up's. They must feel so big and
awkward, thick stubby fingers and beefy palms. Of course, they had bigger keyboards--
but how could their thick fingers draw a fine line, the way Ender could, a thin line so
precise that he could make it spiral seventy-nine times from the center to the edge of the
desk without the lines ever touching or overlapping. It gave him something to do while
the teacher droned on about arithmetic. Arithmetic! Valentine had taught him arithmetic
when he was three.
"Are you all right. Andrew?"
